there is growing concern about the dire
state of hospitals in Gaza this map
shows hospitals in the Gaza Strip the UN
says 20 out of 36 are no longer working
the biggest alifer is not functioning at
all according to the World Health
Organization Al sher's head of surgery
has told the BBC that a third premature
newborn baby has died because of a lack
of power there are reports that gaza's
second biggest Hospital Al cuds has run
out of fuel it's now five weeks since
Hamas designated a terror organization
by the UK government killed more than
1,200 people in Israel and took more
than 200 hostage since then Hamas
officials say well over 11,000 people
have been killed in Israeli attacks on
Gaza well let's go live to Jerusalem now
and speak to our correspondent Tom
baitman good morning Tom another week be
begins just talk us through what's been
happening
overnight well what we have is this
really desperate situation at as shifer
Hospital you were hearing about the
World Health Organization talking about
a perilous and dire situation and that
is because of the fact that around the
hospital now now there is very Fierce
fighting they're talking about intense
bombardment and armed clashes and So
within the hospital on top of what has
been you know a very very uh an
extremely difficult humanitarian
situation for weeks now it is
effectively completely closed apart from
what the Israelis say are safe evacu
evacuation rootes out now Palestinians
say that it is simply not safe there are
dead bodies lining the route that people
have been shot at uh and people killed
when they um have tried to leave so it's
extremely perilous and in the middle of
all this this huge crisis with 36 now
premature babies taken out of the
Intensive neonatal intensive care unit
because it stopped functioning because
of the loss of power uh now being kept
in a uh cardiac surgery room without the
right equipment they're not in
incubators they can't be kept properly
warm they have Desperate needs and the
doctor there Dr Maran abusada telling
the BBC that he fears those babies will
die unless either the hospital gets fuel
to power incubators or there is a safe
uh evacuation for those babies but it
takes very specialized Medical equipment
to do that okay hence the call on the on
the part of the who for action on this
in the meantime there's been conflicting
reports coming through overnight uh
about the hostages uh prime minister uh
Benjamin netan who is speaking to the US
Network NBC saying that a
deal is is possible could come about and
yet we're getting reports from Reuters
via Reuters Hamas saying no they've
stopped talking because of the attacks
on Al
shifer well first of all when it comes
to the hostages we have had for weeks
speculation uh the sense that perhaps a
deal uh to release a large number of
hostages in exchange for a ceasefire and
possibly also the release of Palestinian
prisoners held by Israel those kinds of
uh discussions have been going on for a
long time and at various points um
people have said uh including leading
officials that something could be close
and then hasn't come to fruition so it's
hard to read too much into either what
Benjamin Netanyahu is saying or the um
these denials by um Hamas I mean my
sense talking to somebody uh over the
last week who's familiar with the
negotiations is that you know the
process is very intense it is certainly
happening um the one of the big problems
is actually around communication because
you have katar uh which hosts the
political offices of Hamas acting as
mediators um but certainly the isi media
it's being suggested it can take
anything up to 2 days for messages from
the Israelis and responses to come back
from um Hamas so it's clearly very very
difficult but it seems that that
possibility does remain on the horizon
of a possible uh release and potentially
um a large number but beyond knowing
that the discussions it seems have been
continuing up until this point I don't
think we can speculate much more okay
thank you for now Tom bitman in
Jerusalem for us well now let's bring
you a special report from our
International editor Jeremy Bowen who
assesses what could happen next in Gaza
and in
Israel the beds were full when mosab
soier was brought in wounded gaza's
Medics have to
improvise and a photo of premature
babies at chifa the main hospital in
Gaza swaddled to stay alive after their
incubators stopped working when the
power ran out all born in the cruelty of
War
war in the other Hamas Israel Wars it
would be time for a ceasefire by now and
back to the same uneasy status quo until
the next
explosion news teams can't cross into
Gaza so they come to stot the nearest
Israeli town to look in perhaps the
biggest question is what happens in Gaza
the day after who's going to be in
charge Israeli
occupi an international Force
Palestinians if so which
Palestinians This Time It's Different
the cost in lives from the Hamas attacks
to Israel's response has thrust the
conflict into unknown territory with
Israel on the attack prime minister
Netanyahu rejected America's day after
plan the US wants the Palestinian
Authority Rivals to Hamas to run Gaza
after the fighting and then a
Palestinian State alongside Israel
Netanyahu opposes Palestinian
Independence and wants Israel to control
security Danny atom once the Israeli spy
Chief said that's why the Prime Minister
snubbed Israel's most important Ally
Israel should not stay too long in the
Gaza Street one
secondly it will not be able to leave
the Gaza Strip unless all the abduct are
in our hands back in a peaceful
situation and we won we succeed Hamas we
won the war against Kamas now there is a
need to Define what does it mean exactly
to to to win I Define it as the collapse
of Hamas as a body as
organization ER losing
its ER a chain of
command Israelis are united behind their
army but not their prime
minister these demonstrators outside his
office in Jerusalem believe he is
pandering to the Hardline Jewish
nationalists who keep him in power
another big question for Israelis is the
future of their prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu he was a divisive figure
before the 7th of October and since then
a lot of Israelis have started to blame
him for for the security and
intelligence and Military
errors that allowed Hamas to attack with
such devastating
consequences there's anger that after
Hamas killed and abducted so many mostly
Israeli civilians military and
intelligence Chiefs accepted their share
of the blame and the Prime Minister did
not and pressure is growing for a
ceasefire in exchange for
hostages what is fighting Hamas okay of
course the the the Hamas needs to be
taken down okay but the question of how
to do it is also a significant question
and before I want to kill one single
terrorist I want each and every one of
these people home I want the
10-month-old baby
home I want that the 86-year-old home I
want that more than I want dead
terrorists once they're home we can
finish the job the pain and hatred
Unleashed since the 7th of October might
overwhelm all those who still believe in
peace not permanent
War almost every day in the West Bank
they bury more Palestinians killed in
Israeli raids this side of the occupied
Palestinian territories is becoming the
war's next
Battleground the only answer Western
leaders say is to revive the two-state
solution independent Palestine alongside
Israel a failed idea that survives only
as a slogan
Sab sidam an adviser to the Palestinian
president has heard it all before I
think it's empty it's meaningless if it
continues to be this way if you want to
do things don't just walk uh don't just
talk just you need to walk the talk and
you need to implement things if we
continue with this uh slogan earing
without any results whatsoever we're
getting
nowhere when this war started Joe Biden
warned Israel not to be blinded by r
as America was after the 9/11 attacks by
alqaeda now Israel's tactics are
alarming the Americans they reiterate
support for Israel but say too many
Palestinians have been killed by the war
machine they helped Israel
build inside Gaza Israeli military
sensors say we can't show the faces of
soldiers we filmed senior Western
diplomats firm Israeli allies told the
BBC that ending the war and dealing with
the aftermath will be difficult and
messy the wall between Jerusalem and the
West Bank is a monument to the death of
the last peace
process so what do we know well events
since the attacks of October the 7th
have shown that this conflict is not
something that Israel can manage and the
rest of the world can ignore there's
also the history of a century of
conflict between Arabs and Jews for
control of this land and that shows that
there's no military
solution so if the current Bloodshed
doesn't lead to a new and serious
attempt to make peace then there'll be
more Wars for more
Generations but War hardens hearts in
Gaza today in a brief pause thousands
more Palestinians fled the Israeli
offensive jery bow BBC News Jerusalem